---
title: Revealing Oceanic Transport Patterns Derivation of Lagrangian Coherent Structures along the New Zealand West Coast.
author: remy
date: 2024-09-08 14:10:00 +0000
categories: [Coastal NZ]
tags: [lcs]
render_with_liquid: false
comments: true
image:
  path: /commons/blog_img/LCS.png
---


## Abstract

Understanding oceanic transport patterns is crucial as they significantly influence ocean circulation, mixing,
and the distribution of marine life. These patterns, including oceanic fronts and eddies, play a key role in
shaping the marine environment and its ecosystems. However, extracting these transport pathways presents
a considerable challenge. Traditional Lagrangian methods are limited in their ability to cover large spatial
zones and are often computationally expensive. These methods are also sensitive to initial conditions, such
as release positions and times, which complicates the study of inherently chaotic oceanic processes.
A technique for overcoming these limitations is the derivation of Lagrangian Coherent Structures (LCSs). LCSs
effectively capture the temporal variability of oceanic flows over large areas and provide detailed maps of
transport pathways. This method highlights strong environmental gradients, such as currents, temperature,
and salinity, offering a more comprehensive understanding of ocean dynamics.
In our study, we computed LCSs inside our national hindcast, a 3D baroclinic model covering the entire New
Zealand at resolution of 500m near the coast. We conducted LCS calculations over an entire year with a 7-day
integration period, uncovering numerous intriguing features, including both well-known and less documented
patterns.
In this talk, we will present our methodology and discuss the transport patterns highlighted by the LCSs. We
will also explore the implications of these patterns on the New Zealand environment, opening a discussion on
their impacts and applications.




## When

Suscribe to the mailing list to receive an invite to this talk
